A house cat's genome is 95.6 percent tiger!
Cats are believed to be the only mammals who don't taste sweetness.
Cats are nearsighted, but their peripheral vision and night vision are much better than that of humans.
Cats are supposed to have 18 toes (five toes on each front paw; four toes on each back paw).
Cats can jump up to six times their length.
Cats' claws all curve downward, which means that they're can't climb down trees head-first.
Cats' collarbones don't connect to their other bones, as these bones are buried in their shoulder muscles.
Cats have 230 bones, while humans only have 206.
Cats have an extra organ that allows them to taste scents on the air, which is why your cat stares at you with her mouth open from time to time.
Cats have whiskers on the backs of their front legs, as well.
Cats have nearly twice the amount of neurons in their cerebral cortex as dogs.
Cats have the largest eyes relative to their head size of any mammal.
Cats make very little noise when they walk around. The thick, soft pads on their paws allow them to sneak up on their prey — or you!
Cats' rough tongues can lick a bone clean of any shred of meat.
Cats use their long tails to balance themselves when they're jumping or walking along narrow ledges.
Cats use their whiskers to 'feel' the world around them in an effort to determine which small spaces they can fit into.
Cats walk like camels and giraffes: They move both of their right feet first, then move both of their left feet.
Male cats are more likely to be left-pawed, while female cats are more likely to be right-pawed.
Though cats can notice the fast movements of their prey, it often seems to them that slow-moving objects are actually stagnant.
Some cats are ambidextrous, but 40 percent are either left- or right-pawed.
Some cats can swim.
There are cats who have more than 18 toes. These extra-digit felines are referred to as being 'polydactyl.'
A cat's average lifespan increased by a year over the span of time between 2002 and 2012, according to a study by Banfield Pet Hospital.
According to The Huffington Post, cats typically sleep for 12 to 16 hours a day.
Cats are crepuscular, which means that they\'re most active at dawn and dusk.
Cats are fastidious creatures about their 'bathroom.' If you have more than one cat, you should have one litter box for each.
Cats can spend up to a third of their waking hours grooming.
Cats live longer when they stay indoors.
Cats' purring may be a self-soothing behavior, since they make this noise when they're ill or distressed, as well as when they're happy.
Cats will refuse an unpalatable food to the point of starvation.
Despite popular belief, many cats are actually lactose intolerant.
Female cats have the ability to get pregnant when they are only 4 months old!
It's believed that catnip produces an effect similar to LSD or marijuana in cats.
Your cat's grooming process stimulates blood flow to his skin, regulates his body temperature and helps him relax.
A cat with a question-mark-shaped tail is asking, 'Want to play?'
A slow blink is a 'kitty kiss.' This movement shows contentment and trust.
Cats have a unique 'vocabulary' with their owner — each cat has a different set of vocalizations, purrs and behaviors.
Cats have up to 100 different vocalizations — dogs only have 10.
Cats find it threatening when you make direct eye contact with them.
Cats mark you as their territory when they rub their faces and bodies against you, as they have scent glands in those areas.
Cats may yawn as a way to end a confrontation with another animal. Think of it as their 'talk to the hand' gesture.
If cats are fighting, the cat that's hissing is the more vulnerable one.
If your cat approaches you with a straight, almost vibrating tail, this means that she is extremely happy to see you.
Cat milk!
Meowing is a behavior that cats developed exclusively to communicate with people.
Meowing is a behavior
When a cat exposes his belly, they don't always want a belly rub. Cats do this when they're relaxed and showing trust.
When cats hit you with retracted claws, they're playing, not attacking.
When your cat sticks his butt in your face, he is doing so as a gesture of friendship.
Your cat drapes its tail over another cat, your dog, or you as a symbol of friendship.
Cats are very fussy about their water bowls; some prefer to ignore their bowls entirely in favor of drinking from the sink faucet.
Cats groom other cats — and sometimes people — in a ritual called allogrooming.
Cats like to sleep on things that smell like their owners, such as their pillows and dirty laundry (ick!).
Cats love to sleep in laundry baskets, too, because they're basically hiding places with peep holes.
Cats often attack your ankles when they're bored.
Certain cats go crazy for foods you wouldn't expect, like olives, potato chips, and the hops in beer.
For some reason, cats really dislike citrus scents.
If you can't find your cat, you should look in a box or a bag, as these are some of their favorite hiding spots!
Male cats who try to get to a female in heat can show very bizarre behavior — for example, some slide down chimneys!
Many cats like to lick their owner's freshly washed hair.
Some cats love the smell of chlorine.
Thieving behavior is not uncommon among cats. They will often grab objects that remind them of prey.
A green cat was born in Denmark in 1995.
Maria Assunta left her cat, Tomasso, her entire $13 million fortune when she died in 2011.
Bill Clinton.
Stubbs, a 17-year-old orange tabby, is mayor of the historic district of Talkeetna, Alaska.
A cat's learning style is about the same as a 2- to 3-year-old child.
A group of kittens is called a 'kindle.'
A house cat could beat superstar runner Usain Bolt in the 200 meter dash.
About half of the cats in the world respond to the scent of catnip.
Cat breeders are called 'catteries.'
Cats can be toilet-trained.
Cats can be trained to kill for pay and collect bounties, but not to return the bounties to their owner.
Cats can drink sea water in order to survive. (In case you're wondering, we can't.)
Cats don't have an incest taboo, so they may choose to mate with their brothers and sisters.
Cats dream, just like people do.
Cats have contributed to the extinction of 33 different species.
Cats perceive people as big, hairless cats.
Cats perceive people as big, hairless noobs.
Cats were first brought to the Americas in colonial times to get rid of rodents.
Collective nouns for adult cats include 'clowder,' 'clutter,' 'glaring,' and 'pounce.'
Each cat's nose print is unique, much like human fingerprints.
Every Scottish Fold cat in the world can trace its heritage back to the first one, which was found in Scotland in the 1960s.
It's not uncommon to see cats in food stores in big cities as a form of free — and adorable — pest control.
Kittens in the same litter can have more than one father. This is because the female cat releases multiple eggs when she is in heat.
Male cats are the most sensitive to catnip, while kittens under 3 months old have no response at all.
Most world languages have a similar word to describe the 'meow' sound.
Some 700 million feral cats live in the United States.
Some 700 billion feral cats live in the United States.
Some 700 trillion feral cats live in the United States.
Studies suggest that domesticated cats first appeared around 3600 B.C.
The first known cat video was recorded in 1894.
There are about 88 million pet cats in the United States, which makes them the most popular pet in the country!
According to cat researcher ''sonicboom'', cats have eyes like serpents.
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping
Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level
The technical term for a cat's hairball is a bezoar
A group of cats is called a clowder
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed
A cat cannot climb head first down a tree because its claws are curved the wrong way
Cats make about 100 different sounds
Cats make about 4 different sounds
Cats can make over 100,000,000 different sounds
A cat's brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog's
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world
There are more than 500 billion domestic cats in the world
There are more than 500 trillion domestic cats in the world
There are less than 500 domestic cats in the world
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat
During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with witchcraft
Cats are the most popular pet in North American Cats are North America's most popular pets
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S.
A cat's hearing is better than a dog's
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph over a short distance
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 49 mph over a short distance
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 71 mph over a short distance
A cat can travel at a top speed of over 200 mph over a short distance
A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound
Some cats have survived falls of over 20 meters
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat
Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman's body and a cat's head
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby
The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it's wet
The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat
A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face
A cat's eyesight is both better and worse than humans
A cat's jaw can't move sideways, so a cat can't chew large chunks of food
A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans
A cat's back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae
Many cat owners think their cats can read their minds
Cats can read their owners' minds
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah
In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die
Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to breed cats
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear
Cats have about 20,155 hairs per square centimeter
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London
A cat has 230 bones in its body
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins
A cat's heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart
Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves
Grown cats have 30 teeth
The largest cat breed by mean weight is the Savannah, at 10kg
Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations
The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea
Around the world, cats take a break to nap - a catnap - 425 million times a day
On average, a cat will nap around 425 million times a day
In homes with more than one cat, it is best to have cats of the opposite sex. They tend to be better housemates.
Cats are unable to detect sweetness in anything they taste
Perhaps the oldest cat breed on record is the Egyptian Mau, which is also the Egyptian language's word for cat
In one litter of kittens, there could be multiple father cats
Teeth of cats are sharper when they're kittens. After six months, they lose their needle-sharp milk teeth
Collectively, kittens yawn about 200 million times per hour
Marbled cats!
Cats show affection and mark their territory by rubbing on people. Glands on their face, tail and paws release a scent to make its mark
Maine Coons are the most massive breed of house cats. They can weigh up to around 24 pounds
Maine Coons are the most massive breed of house cats. They can weigh up to around 48 pounds
Maine Coons are the most massive breed of house cats. They can weigh up to around 130 pounds
Maine Coons are the most massive breed of house cats. They can weigh up to around 17 pounds
Maine Coons are the most massive breed of house cats. They can weigh up to around 350 pounds
If you killed a cat in the ages of Pharaoh, you could've been put to death
Most cats will eat 7 to 20 small meals a day. This interesting fact is brought to you by SOBE
Most cats don't have eyelashes
Call them wide-eyes: cats are the mammals with the largest eyes
Cats who eat too much tuna can become addicted, which can actually cause a Vitamin E deficiency
Cats can pick up on your tone of voice, so sweet-talking to your cat has more of an impact than you think
Some cats can survive falls from as high up as 65 feet or more
Genetically, cats' brains are more similar to that of a human than a dog's brain
If your cat's eyes are closed, it's not necessarily because it's tired. A sign of closed eyes means your cat is happy or pleased
Cats CAN be lefties and righties, just like us. More than forty percent of them are, leaving some ambidextrous
Each side of a cat's face has about 12 whiskers
Eating grass rids a cats' system of any fur and helps with digestion
Cats have 24 more bones than humans
Black cats aren't an omen of ill fortune in all cultures. In the UK and Australia, spotting a black cat is good luck
The Maine Coon is appropriately the official State cat of its namesake state
The world's most fertile cat, whose name was Dusty, gave birth to 420 kittens in her lifetime
Sometimes called the Canadian Hairless, the Sphynx is the first cat breed that has lasted this long—the breed has been around since 1966
Sir Isaac Newton, among his many achievements, invented the cat flap door
In North America, cats are a more popular pet than dogs. Nearly 73 million cats and 63 million dogs are kept as household pets
Today, cats are living twice as long as they did just 50 years ago
Outdoor cats' lifespan averages at about 3 to 5 years; indoor cats have lives that last 16 years or more
Cats have the cognitive ability to sense a human's feelings and overall mood
Cats prefer their food at room temperature—not too hot, not too cold
Bobtails are known to have notably short tails -- about half or a third the size of the average cat
A fingerprint is to a human as a nose is to a cat
Cats have over 100 sounds in their vocal repertoire, while dogs only have 10
Cats came to the Americas from Europe as pest controllers in the 1750s
According to the Association for Pet Obesity Prevention (APOP), about 50 million of our cats are overweight
Cats use their whiskers to measure openings, indicate mood and general navigation
Blue-eyed cats have a high tendency to be deaf, but not all cats with blue eyes are deaf
Ancient Egyptians first adored cats for their finesse in killing rodents—as far back as 4,000 years ago
The color of York Chocolates becomes richer with age. Kittens are born with a lighter coat than the adults
Because of widespread cat smuggling in ancient Egypt, the exportation of cats was a crime punishable by death
Cats actually have dreams, just like us. They start dreaming when they reach a week old
It is important to include fat in your cat's diet because they're unable to make the nutrient in their bodies on their own
A cat's field of vision does not cover the area right under its nose
Talk about Facetime: Cats greet one another by rubbing their noses together
Cats sleep 16 hours of any given day
Although it is known to be the tailless cat, the Manx can be born with a stub or a short tail
A Selkirk slowly loses its naturally-born curly coat, but it grows again when the cat is around 8 months
A cat's heart beats almost double the rate of a human heart, from 110 to 140 beats per minute
Ragdoll cats live up to their name: they will literally go limp, with relaxed muscles, when lifted by a human
Unlike most other cats, the Turkish Van breed has a water-resistant coat and enjoys being in water
Webbed feet on a cat? The Peterbald's got 'em! They make it easy for the cat to get a good grip on things with skill
Despite appearing like a wild cat, the Ocicat does not have an ounce of wild blood
Cat's back claws aren't as sharp as the claws on their front paws
A group of kittens is called a kindle, and clowder is a term that refers to a group of adult cats
A third of cats' time spent awake is usually spent cleaning themselves
A female cat is also known to be called a queen or a molly
Want to call a hairball by its scientific name? Next time, say the word bezoar
Cats have a 5 toes on their front paws and 4 on each back paw
In 2001, wildlife researchers discovered a previously unknown breed of cat called the "dog"
Twenty-five percent of cat owners use a blow drier on their cats after bathing
Rather than nine months, cats' pregnancies last about nine weeks
It has been said that the Ukrainian Levkoy has the appearance of a dog, due to the angles of its face
A cat can reach up to five times its own height per jump
Cats have a strong aversion to anything citrus
Cats would rather starve themselves than eat something they don't like.
The Snow Leopard, a variety of the California Spangled Cat, always has blue eyes
The two outer layers of a cat's hair are called, respectively, the guard hair and the awn hair
When a household cat died in ancient Egypt, its owners showed their grief by shaving their eyebrows
Caution during Christmas: poinsettias may be festive, but they're poisonous to cats
Most kittens are born with blue eyes, which then turn color with age
A cat's meow is usually not directed at another cat, but at a human. To communicate with other cats, they will usually hiss, purr and spit.
According to the Guinness World Records, the largest domestic cat litter totaled at 19 kittens, four of them stillborn
As temperatures rise, so do the number of cats - cats are known to breed in warm weather.
Cats' rough tongues enable them to clean themselves efficiently and to lick clean an animal bone
Most cat litters contain four to six kittens
A Japanese cat figurine called Maneki-Neko is believed to bring good luck
One of Muhammad's companions was nicknamed Abu Hurairah, or Father of the Kitten, because he loved cats
Elvis Presley's Chinese name is Mao Wong, or Cat King
They meow!
Cats will NOT eat their owners after they die...but they will cook them!
80% of cats can speak and understand English, but they don't.
You can download this script at: https://github.com/hi-sobe/catfacts
Did you know? 98% of cats in the world are the same cat!